Now for that let's say we want to ask the user whether he really wants to delete the recipe before we
go ahead and do it and hence in recipe detail, in this recipe detail page,
I want to show an alert. Now as I mentioned, we don't include ion-alert-controller in our template anymore
and then select it with a Javascript, instead you can now thanks to @ionic/angular simply inject your
alert controller let's say and the same will work for the other controllers we'll learn about throughout
the course and the type here is alert controller.
Now alert controller and that's important needs to be imported from @ionic/angular because this wrapper
package gives you this convenient access to the alert controller and it does so by not giving you a
default component
you have to add to your templates and then access manually but by giving you a service in the end that
gives you all the features of the alert controller.
So now we can use this alert controller service down there to create a new alert
and here thanks to Typescript, we even get auto-completion and we can see what we can set here by hitting
control space.
So we pass an object to create and in there, we can see what we can set on this alert,
for example we can add a header of
are you sure
and then let's say a message of
do you really want to delete the recipe
and then we can add some buttons and here, I of course also want to give the user the option of replying
with no.
So buttons here will not just be an array where I have
OK,
instead we can pass an object in here to configure a button in a bit more detail and that object can have
a text, a role and a handler.
Now let me add a text here and there,
I want to have the text of let's say cancel.
We can give this a role of cancel and that will actually just close the dialog and not do anything else
and I can add a second button with a text of delete and there,
well indeed
I want to delete this. Now create returns a promise which actually gives us this alert element, this hasn't
changed and then we can call alert el present.
Now I only want to delete if this button is pressed and for that I can define a handler here which in the
end is just defining a function
and here I'm defining an anonymous arrow function that holds the code that should execute when
this button is pressed.
So there, I will delete and navigate, on cancel,
I'll do nothing,
just the alert will be closed.
Then we present this alert here and
that should be all we need with this alert controller being injected
now which of course is pretty nice.
So let's wait for this
and if I now click this trash bin, I get this nice alert,
if I click cancel, nothing happens
but if I click delete, then we go ahead, we delete this and we are navigated.
So this now works as it should work
and this is another major advantage of using Angular here with the @ionic/angular package.
We got very easy access to that alert controller and we can inject this anywhere where we want to show
an alert.